AWS Route 53 - Overview:
++++++++++++++++++++++++

Amazon route 53 is a highly available and scalable domain name system(DNS) web service. We can use it to reg  ister new domains, transfers existing domains, 
route traffic for our domains to our AWS and external resources and monitor the health of our resources
  
  Route 53 is a managed DNS(domain name system).
  DNS is a collection of rules and records which helps client understand how to reach a server through it's domain name.
  
  In, AWS most common records are:
    . A: hostname to IPv4.
    . AAAA: hostname IPv6
    . CNAME: hostname to hostname.
    . Alias: hostname to AWS resources.
    
    
  Route 53 can use:
   . public domain name we own(or buy).
   . private domain name that cna be resolved by our instances in our VPCs.
   
   
Route 53 has advanced features such as:
 . Load balancing(through DNS - also called as client balancing).
 . Health checks(although limited...)
 . Routing policy: simple, geolocation, failover, latency, weighted, multi value.
 . Traffic maintaining
 
 
 We have to pay $0.5 per month per hosted zone.

A generic top-level domain (gTLD) is a global extension that is used and recognized around the world. Generic top-level domains cover a thematic field, like .org for non-profit organizations and .biz for commercial businesses. 
The core group of generic top-level domains consists of the following: com, net, org, biz, info.
 
 
NOTE: Each amazon route 53 account is limited to a maximum of 500 hosted zones and 10000 resources record sets per hosted zone. We can increase this limit by requesting to AWS.

Deligate to Route 53:
------------------
COnnect the domain name to route 53 hosted zone - This is called deligation.

To delegate a subdomain to Amazon Route 53, you can: 
Create a hosted zone for the subdomain
Add records to the hosted zone for the subdomain
Create an NS record for the subdomain in the hosted zone for the domain
You can also create a delegation set, which is a group of four name servers that can be reused by multiple hosted zones. 
Route 53 is an authoritative DNS system that can be used for domain registration, DNS routing, and health checking.


Recursive DNS VS Authoritative DNS

Recursive servers temporarily store information they've previously retrieved, but when that information isn't available in cache, they have to get it from another server. 
Authoritative nameservers always hold the most up-to-date information and can provide a final answer for new user queries.



Root DNS VS Name Server:

A root name server is a name server for the root zone of the Domain Name System (DNS) of the Internet. Root name servers are responsible for the functionality of the DNS as well as the entire Internet. 
They are the first step in the name resolution of any domain name, meaning they translate domain names into IP addresses. 
Name servers are a role in the DNS system, holding the DNS records that connect a domain name to an IP address. 
A root name server directly answers requests for records in the root zone and answers other requests by returning a list of the authoritative name servers for the appropriate top-level domain (TLD). 
The root nameserver extracts the Top Level Domain (TLD) from the user's query and responds by directing the recursive resolver to a TLD nameserver, based on the extension of that domain (.com, .net, .org, etc.)




Route 53 Hosted Zone:
-=------------------

A Route 53 hosted zone is a container for managing the DNS records on a domain that uses Route 53 as its DNS provider. A hosted zone is analogous to a traditional DNS zone file. 
A hosted zone has the same name as the corresponding domain. For example, a hosted zone for example.com would include information about how to route traffic for 
example.com and all of its subdomains, such as www.example.com, retail.example.com, and seattle.accounting.example.com. 
A hosted zone can be either a public or private hosted zone. Public hosted zones are accessible within your private networks, such as internal web service or databases. 
Route 53 provides some features that other DNS providers may not have, such as: 
The ability to use Alias records for AWS resources
Configuring a private hosted zone for use with Amazon VPC

For each publichosted zone thar we create, amazon route 53 automatically crrates a name server resord and a start of authority (SOA) record.

WHen we create a hosted zone, amazon route 53 automatically crreates a name server records and a start of uthority (SOA) for the zone.



ROute 53 as Authorative DNS:
--------------------------
Once we update the route 53 DNS settings with our domin register to onclude the route 53 name servers, it will be responsible to respond to DNS queries for the hosted zone.

IMP:
We can create more than one hosted zone with the same name and different records to each hosted zone.



Route 53 Hosted ZOne Default Entries:
-----------------------------------
Inside the hosted zone by default we have 2 entries.

- NS (Name Servers) - Contains the unique sets of name servers for this hosted zone.ex. 2345-awsdns-34-.com, org, .net, .co.uk

- SOA(Start of Authority) - Contains the information about the hosted zone.
