EC2 Instances Launch Types:
    1. On Demand Instances: short workload, predictable pricing.
    2. Reserved: (MINIMUM 1 Year)
        > Reserved Instances: long workload.
        > Convertable Reserved Instances: long workload with flexible instances.
        > Scheduled Reserved Instances: Every Monday 5-7 am for a year.
    3. Spot Instances: short workload, for cheap, can lose instance(less reliable).
    4. Dedicated Instances: No other cx will share your underlying hardware in AWS.
    5. Dedicated Host: Book an entire physical server, control instances placement. 

On Demand Instances:
    Pay for what you use(billing per second after one minute).
    Has the highest cost but no upfront payment.
    No long term commitment

EC2 Reserved Instances:
    Upto 75% discount compared to on demand instance.
    Pay upfront for what you use for long term commitment.
    Highly recomended for steady usage application (think database).

    Convertable Reserved Instances:
        Can change the EC2 instance type.
        Upto 54% discount.

    Scheduled Reserved Instances:
        Launch within time window you reserve.
        When we required for a fraction of a day/week/month.

Spot Instances:
    Can get upto 90% discount compared to on demand instance.
    Instance that you can "lose" at any point of time if your max price is less than the current spot price.
    It's the most cost efficient instance in AWS.
    Useful for work load that are:
        Batch Jobs
        Data Analysis
        Image processing
        ..... 

        Not good/greate for critical jobs or database.

        Great combo: Reserved Instance for baseline + On-Demand or Spot for peaks.

EC2 Dedicated Hosts:
    Physical dedicated to EC2 for our use.
    Full control of EC2 instance placement.
    Visibility into the underlying sockets/physical core of the hardware. 
    Allocated for your account for 3 years period reservation.
    More Expensive.

    Useful for software that have complicate licensing model (BYOL- Bring Your own license).
 
EC2 Dedicated Instances:
    Instances running on hardware that's dedicated to you.
    May share hardware with other instances in the same account.
    No control over instance placement (can move hardware after start/stop).

EC2 Spot Instances in deep:
    Can get upto 90% discount compared to on demand instance.
    
    Define max spot price and get the instance while current spot price < max price.
        The hourly spot price varies based on offer and capacity.
        If the current spot price > our max price you can choose to stop or terminate our instances within 2 minutes, we can run the insance later if we have stopped when the spot
        price < max.
        
    Other stratigy: Spot Block.
        "block" spot instance during a specific period of time frame (1 to 6 hours) without interruption.
        In rare situation the instances can be reclaimed.
        
    Used for batch jobs, data analysis, or workload that are resilient to failure.
    Not great for critical jobs or database.
    
    
Spot Fleets: 
    Spot fleets = set of spot instances + optional on demand instances.
    
    The spot fleet will try to meet the target capacity with price constrains.
        Define possible launched pools: instance type(m5.large)OS, Avability Zone. 
        Can have multiple launch loops, so that the fleet can choose.
        Spot fleets stops launching instances when reaching capacity or max cost.
        
  Strategies to allocate Spot Instances.
    lowest price: from the pool with the lowest price(cost optimization, short workload).
    diversified: distributed accross all pools(great for avability, long workload)
    capacity Optimized: pool with the optimal capacity for the number of instances.
    
    
    Spot Fleets allows us automatically request Spot instance with lowest price.
    
    
EC2 Instance Types - Main Ones:
    R: Applications that needs a lot of RAM - memory in caches.
    C: Applications that needs good CPU  - compute / database.
    M: Application that are balance (think medium) - general/web app
    I: Applications that needs good local I/O(instance storage) - database.
    G: Applications that needs a GPU - video rendering / machine learning.
    
    T2/T3 brustable instances(up to a capacity).
    T2/T3 unlimited : unlimited brust.

Brustable Instances(T2/T3):
    AWS has the consept of brustable instances(T2/T3 machines).

    Brust means that overall, the instance has OK CPU performance.
    When the machine needs to process something expected (a spike in load for example), it can brust(boost) the CUP and can be 
    very good.
    If the machine brusts, it utilizes brust credits.
    If all the credit gone CPU becomes bad.
    If the machine stops brusting credits are accumulated over time.
    Brustable instances can be amazing to handle the unexpected traffic and getting the insurance that it will be 
    handled correctly.
    If your instances constantly runs low on credit you need to move to a different kind of non-brustable instance.  


T2/T3 Umlimited:
   It is possible to have umlimited brustable credits.
   Have to pay xtra if we went over credit balance but the preformance is up anyway.

   Overall, it is a new offer and have to be cautious as if we do not do helath check of an application than it can 
   cost huge amount.
