Placement Groups:
    1) Sometimes we want to control oner EC2 instance Placement strategy, that strategy ca nbe defined using placement
        groups.
    2) When we create a placement groups, we specify one fo the following strategies for the groups:
        a) Clustr - Cluster instances into a low-letancy group in a single available Zone.
        b) Spread - Spread instance across underlying heardware(max 7 instances per group per AZ - critical applications.)
        c) Partition -  Spread instances across many different partitions (which relay on different set of racks) within an AZ.
           Scales to 100s of instances per group(which allows to run applications such as hadoop, Kafka, cassandra).
        
A) Cluster Groups: 
    Pros: Great network(10 gbps bandwidth between instances).
    Cons: If the rack fails, all the instances fails aat the same time as all racks are in one hardware.

Use Case: 
    Big data jobs that needed to coomplete fast.
    Applications that needs extremly low-letancy and high network throughput.


B) Spread Groups: 
    Prons: Can spread across available zones.
           EC2 in are on different physical hardware.
           If one of the instance fails others will be up and running.

    Cons:  Limited to 7 inst / AZ per placement groups.
           
Use Case:
    Applications that needs to maximize high availability.
    Critical applications where each instance must be isolated from failure from each other.


C) Partition Groups:
    Pros: Upto 7 partitions per AZ.
          Upto 100s of instances.
          instances in the partition do not share the racks with the instances in the other partitions.
          A partition failure can affect amny EC2 instances but won't affect other partition.
          EC2 instance gets access to the partition information as metadata.


Use Case: Kafka, Hadoop, Cassandra, HDFS, HBase like applications. 



Elastic Network Interface(ENI):
    They are logical components in VPC that represents a virtual network card.
    The ENI can have the following attributes:
        a) Primary private IPv4 or more secondary IPv4.
        b) One Elastic IP(ipv4) per private ipv4.
        c) one public ipv4.
        d) one or more security groups.
        e) A MAC address. 

We can create ENI independently and attached them on fly(move them) on EC2 instances for failover.
Bound to specific availability zone(AZ).