
What are the 4 types of database?
How Many Types of Databases Are There?
Hierarchical Databases. Developed in the 1960s, the hierarchical database looks similar to a family tree. ...
Relational Databases. Relational databases are a system designed in the 1970s. ...
Non-Relational Databases. ...
Object oriented databases.



A relational database is a type of database that stores and provides access to data points that are related to one another. Relational databases are based on the relational model, an intuitive, straightforward way of representing data in tables.

RD cannot scale-out horizontally that means we cannot add another server to handle the load but we can increase it's memory vertically such as from 64GB to 128GB in size.
Auto scaling is not possible.

Virtually all relational database uses SQL.


Non-Relational DB/No-SQL DB:
___________________________

1. non relational database store data without a structured mechanism to link data from different tables to one another.
2. Require low cost hardware.
3. Much faster performance(Read/wite) compared to relational database.
4. Horizontal scaling is possible.
5. Never provide table with flat fixed cloumns records. It means schema-free.
6. Best suited for online analytical processing.
7. Eg of no-sql dttadbses - MongoDB, Cassandra, DynamoDB Postgres, redis, raven, mariaDB
8. Auto scaling is possible.



NoSQL databases are categorized into four types: 
-----------------------------------------------
Key-value pair: A schema-less data model organized into a dictionary of key-value pairs
Column-oriented: Data is organized into columns rather than rows
Graph-based
Document-oriented: Consists of sets of key-value pairs stored into a document
NoSQL databases have advantages such as improved scalability, availability, and performance over traditional SQL databases. 
However, each category has its unique attributes and limitations. 
Users should select the database based on their product needs. 



COLUMNAR DATABASE:
-----------------
A columnar database is a database management system (DBMS) that stores data in columns instead of rows. 
The purpose of a columnar database is to efficiently write and read data to and from hard disk storage in order to speed up the time it takes to return a query.




DOCUMENT DATABASE:
-----------------
A document database is a type of NoSQL database that stores data as JSON documents instead of columns and rows. JSON is a native language used to both store and query data. 
Each document consists of a number of key-value pairs. NoSQL databases offer a high level of scalability as well as flexibility in terms of data structure. 
They usually do not use Structured Query Language (SQL), which relational databases typically employ to manage and query data.




KEY- VALUE DATABASE:
-------------------
A key-value database, also known as a key-value store, is a type of non-relational database that uses a simple key-value method to store data. 
In a key-value database, data is stored as a collection of key-value pairs in which a key serves as a unique identifier. 
The data is fetched by a unique key or a number of unique keys to retrieve the associated value with each key. 
Key-value databases are fast and reliable, and are easy to design and implement. However, a lack of standardization and other issues limited key–value systems to niche uses for many years. 
The rapid move to cloud computing after 2010 has led to a renaissance as part of the broader NoSQL movement.




GRAPH DATABASE:
--------------
A graph database (GDB) is a database that uses graph structures to store data. It uses nodes, edges, and properties instead of tables or documents to represent and store data. 
The edges represent relationships between the nodes. A graph database is a specialized, single-purpose platform for creating and manipulating graphs. Graphs contain nodes, edges, 
and properties, all of which are used to represent and store data in a way that relational databases are not equipped to do. 
A graph database is designed so that connections between the data are considered as important as the data itself. It also stores the data flexibly in such a way that it is not restricted to a rigid existing model.


