Amazon CloudFront is a content delivery network (CDN) service offered by Amazon Web Services (AWS). 
 It retrieves data stored in the Amazon S3 bucket and distributes it to edge locations across the world. 
 CloudFront is optimized for performance and scalability. It has built-in security features that can be configured for optimal service. 

CloudFront can be used to: 
Securely transfer content such as software, SDKs, videos, etc., to clients
Deliver data, videos, applications, and APIs to customers globally with low latency, high transfer speeds
Accelerate static website content delivery
Serve video on demand or live streaming video
Encrypt specific fields throughout system processing
Customize at the edge
Serve private content by using Lambda@Edge customizations
CloudFront has over 450 globally dispersed points of presence (POPs) with automated network mapping and intelligent routing. 




How many edge locations are there in AWS now?
The global edge network currently consists of over 410 PoPs, including more than 400 Edge Locations, and 13 regional mid-tier caches in over 90 cities across 48 countries
(current status can be found here: Amazon CloudFront Key Features ).




AWS edge locations are data centers that are designed to provide services with the lowest possible latency. They are closer to users than AWS Regions or Availability Zones, often in major cities. 
The primary purpose of an AWS Edge Location is to store massive data files closer to the point where end users access AWS services. For example, 
if you have your data stored in an S3 bucket that is in India, but some percentage of your traffic is also coming from USA. 
AWS edge locations are a network of data centers distributed globally that are used to accelerate the delivery of content and services to users. 
AWS edge locations are strategically positioned points in the AWS network optimized for low-latency content delivery. In contrast, AWS regions are larger geographic areas with multiple Availability Zones. 


Some AWS services for edge computing include: 
Amazon CloudFront
FreeRTOS
AWS IoT Greengrass
AWS Storage Gateway
AWS Outposts
AWS Wavelength
Amazon API Gateway
AWS Certificate Manager



AWS Cloudtrail:

Amazon Web Services (AWS) CloudTrail is a tool for auditing, compliance monitoring, and governance. It records user activity and API usage for your AWS account. This includes actions taken through the Amazon Management Console, Amazon SDKs, command line tools, and other AWS services. 
CloudTrail can help with: 
Security analysis, Resource change tracking, Troubleshooting, Account activity, Compliance monitoring, Governance. 
CloudTrail records information about each action, including: 
Who made the request
The services used
The actions performed
Parameters for the actions
The response elements returned by the AWS service
You can use CloudTrail to: 
View, Search, Download, Archive, Analyze, Respond to account activity. 
To configure CloudTrail logs, you can: 
Log in to the AWS console
Choose CloudTrail from the Services drop down
Click on Trail, and choose Create Trail
