Public vs Private IP (IPv4):

Networking has two sorts of IPs: IPv4 & IPv6
IPv4 is the most common foemat used online.
IPv6 is newer and mostly used for Internet of Things(IOT).


Public vs Private IPs Fundamental Difference:
    Public IPs:
        1. Public Ip means that machine can be identified on the internet.
        2. Must be unique across the whole web(www).
        3. Can be geo-located easily.
        4. It changes in AWS whe n the instance is stopped and re-started again.



    Private IPs:
        1. Machine can be only identified on privste network.
        2. IP muat be unique across private network.
        3. Two companies can have one common IP.
        4. Only a specified IP can be used as private IP.
        5. It remains the same though the instance is stopped and re-strted again.


 Elastic IPs:
    1. It is an IP of the instance which you can attache to one instance at a time.
    2. It is alive as long as the instance is running and it is dynamic in nature.
    3. It is a public IPv4 IP.
    4. Only 5 of it is provided but we can ask AWS to increase it but it's a rare case.

    With an elastic IP, we can mask the failure of an instance or software bby repidly remapping the address of 
    another instance.

Overall it's better avoiding using elastic IPs.
        1. They often reflect poor architectural decisions.
        2. Instead, better use a random public Ip and register a DNS name to it.DNS in AWS will be route 53.
        
The best pattern is to use load balancer rather than the public IPs.  


IPs in AWS EC2:
> By default EC2 comea with private IP for the internal AWS network.
> A public IP for WWW.


When we are doing SSH into the EC2 machine:
1. We can't use the private IP as we are not in the dame network.
2. We can only use the public IP.


Launching Apache Server on EC2:
    1. First swithch to root user: sudo su.
    2. run: yum update -y, it basically forces machine to get updated.
    3. run: yum install -y(for yes) httpd.x86_64
    4. run:systemctl start httpd.service & systemctl enable httpd.service
    5. curl localhost:80(curl is to load whatever in this given url)
    6. now to run the html code in browser we need to run the instance IP in http/:IP XXX:80(mapped port).
    7. We have to create a security group in AWS instance by going to security group, inbount and edit tab.

