Security Groups are the fundamentals of the network security in AWS.
They control how traffic is allowed into and out of EC2 machine.
Allow, inbound & outbound ports.

If we face any time-out issue than it can be a security group issue. 
We can just have a check on ports and other stuffs in security group tab.



Security Group In Deeper:
In actual security groups in EC2 acts as a firewall.

They regulates the following:
1. Access to ports.
2. Authorised IP ranges - IPv4 & IPv6
3. Control of inbound networks (from others to the instance).
4. Control of outbound networks (from the instance to others).


Security groups can be attached to multiple instances & instance can have multiple security groups too.
It is always good to maintaine one separate security group for SSH access.
If the application is not accessible (time out) than it's a security group issue.
If the application gives a "connection refused" error, then it's an application error or it's not launched.
All inbound traffic are blocked by default.
All outbound traffic is authorised by default. 


---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
How to reference security groups from other security groups?
If the security group is authorised than regardless of the IP address as they have the right security group attached to them
they are able to communicate straight through to other instances. 


Eg: 
                            Security Group 1 Inbound         access to port123  allowed  as right security group is attached.            Security Group 1       EC2 Instance
                        Authorising security group 1.                                                                                                          IP XXXXXXXXX       
 EC2 instance           Authorising security group 2.
 IP XXXXXXXX                                                 access to port 123 allowed as right security group is attached.             Security Group 2       EC2 Instance
                                                                                                                                                               IP XXXXXXXXX

                                                             access to port 123 not allowed as it is not authorised security group.              
                                                                                                                                         Security Group 3      EC2 Instance                  
                                                                                                                                                                IP XXXXXXXXX
