Amazon Simple Notification Service (SNS):
----------------------------------------
It is a web service that automates the process of sending notifications to subscribers. It is a fully managed messaging service for both applications-to-application (A2A) and application-to-person (A2P) communication. 
SNS provides developers with the following capabilities: 
Scalable
Cost-effective
Flexible
Publish messages from an application
Deliver messages to subscribers or other applications
SNS enables decoupling of microservices, distributed systems, and serverless applications by providing publish-subscribe (pub-sub) and point-to-point communication patterns. 
SNS is designed to make web-scale computing easier for developers.





Alternative of SNS:
1. Amazon kinesis data stream
2. Amazon managed Queue service(AMS MQ).
3. Apache kafka
4. Twilo
5. Pusher


Amazon SNS pricing:
Notification deliveries
Region:
Endpoint Type	                                                Free Tier	                                                        Price
Mobile Push Notifications	                                    1 million notifications	                                   $0.50 per million notifications
Email/Email-JSON	                                            1,000 notifications                                        $2.00 per 100,000 notifications
HTTP/s	                                                      100,000 notifications	                                     $0.60 per million notifications
Simple Queue Service (SQS)No charge for deliveries to SQS Queues. Standard SQS pricing applies. Data transfer charges apply between Amazon SNS and Amazon SQS.	
AWS Lambda	No charge for deliveries to Lambda. Standard Lambda pricing applies. Data transfer charges apply between Amazon SNS and Lambda.	
Amazon Kinesis Data Firehose	                                Standard Amazon Kinesis Data Firehose pricing applies. Data transfer charges apply between SNS and Amazon Kinesis Data Firehose.	$0.19 per million notifications











