SQS stands for Simple Queue Service. 

It is a web service that provides access to a message queue. It was the first service available in AWS. 
Amazon SQS is a fully managed message queuing service that allows users to: 
Send: Messages between various software components
Store: Messages while waiting for a computer to process them
Retrieve: Multiple messages of various sizes asynchronously
Decouple: Microservices, distributed systems, and serverless applications
Scale: Microservices, distributed systems, and serverless applications
A single Amazon SQS message queue can contain an unlimited number of messages. However, there is a quota of 120,000 for the number of inflight messages for a standard queue and 20,000 for a FIFO queue.
SQS allows the decoupling of application components such that a failure in one components does not cause a bigger problen to application functionality.


In Amazon Simple Queue Service (SQS), visibility timeout is a time interval during which other consumers are prevented from receiving and processing a message. 
The purpose of visibility timeout is to prevent multiple consumers from consuming the same item repeatedly. 
The default visibility timeout for a message is 30 seconds. The minimum is 0 seconds and the maximum is 12 hours. If a task takes longer than 30 seconds, the visibility timeout can be increased. 
Visibility timeout works as follows: 
SQS hands over a message to the consumer.
The consumer processes the message.
The consumer deletes the message from the kit.
If a message must be received only once, the consumer should delete it within the visibility timeout duration. Otherwise, it will be available for another consumer.


Types of Queue in SQS:
---------------------
Standard Queue:                                                                  | FIFO Queue
1. High (unlimited) throughput.                                                  |1. Limited throughput 300 tps but has all the capabilities of standard queue.
2. At least one delivery.                                                        |2. Exactly one processing
3. Best effort ordering.                                                         |3. Duplicacy not possible
                                                                                 |4. Strict ordering - first in first out. 


SQS Pricing:


                                                    Standard Queues (per Million requests)	                                          FIFO Queues (per Million requests)
First 1 Million Requests/Month	                         Free	                                                                                Free
From 1 Million to 100 Billion Requests/Month	           $0.40	                                                                               $0.50
From 100 Billion to 200 Billion Requests/Month           $0.30	                                                                               $0.40
Over 200 Billion Requests/Month	                         $0.24	                                                                               $0.35



How are Amazon SQS charges metered?
---------------------------------- 	 
1. API Actions:	Every Amazon SQS action counts as a request.

2. FIFO Requests:	API actions for sending, receiving, deleting, and changing visibility of messages from FIFO queues are charged at FIFO rates.  All other API requests are charged at standard rates.

3. Contents of Requests:	A single request can have from 1 to 10 messages, up to a maximum total payload of 256 KB.

4. Size of Payloads: Each 64 KB chunk of a payload is billed as 1 request (for example, an API action with a 256 KB payload is billed as 4 requests).

5. Interaction with Amazon S3:	When using the Amazon SQS Extended Client Library to send payloads using Amazon S3, you incur Amazon S3 charges for any Amazon S3 storage you use to send message payloads.

6. Interaction with AWS KMS: When using the AWS Key Management Service to manage keys for SQS server-side encryption, you incur charges for calls from Amazon SQS to AWS KMS. 
   For more information see KMS pricing and How Do I Estimate My AWS KMS Usage Costs? in the Amazon SQS Developer Guide. 



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Amazon SQS provides short polling and long polling to receive messages from a queue. By default, queues use short polling.

With short polling, the ReceiveMessage request queries only a subset of the servers (based on a weighted random distribution) to find messages that are available to include in the response. 
Amazon SQS sends the response right away, even if the query found no messages.

With long polling, the ReceiveMessage request queries all of the servers for messages. Amazon SQS sends a response after it collects at least one available message, 
up to the maximum number of messages specified in the request. Amazon SQS sends an empty response only if the polling wait time expires.


SQS Retention Period:
--------------------
The Amazon Simple Queue Service (SQS) message retention period can be configured to a value between 60 seconds and 14 days. The default retention period is 4 days. 
Once the message retention quota is reached, messages are automatically deleted. The retention period specifies how long a message can stay on a queue before it is automatically deleted, regardless of its processing status. 
The message retention period can be configured using the SetQueueAttributes action. 
Amazon SQS is a message queuing service used for asynchronous messaging between distributed software components. It does not perform data processing operations on the messages it handles.




The Amazon Simple Queue Service (SQS) message retention period can be configured to a value between 60 seconds and 14 days. The default retention period is 4 days. 
Once the message retention quota is reached, messages are automatically deleted. The retention period specifies how long a message can stay on a queue before it is automatically deleted, regardless of its processing status. 
The message retention period can be configured using the SetQueueAttributes action. 



Delivery Delay:
--------------
Delay queues let you postpone the delivery of new messages to consumers for a number of seconds, for example, when your consumer application needs additional time to process messages.
If you create a delay queue, any messages that you send to the queue remain invisible to consumers for the duration of the delay period. The default (minimum) delay for a queue is 0 seconds. 
The maximum is 15 minutes.







































