ssh on Mac/Linux    
ssh is one of the most important function. It allows you to control a remote machine, all using a command 
line.

ssh using putty on windows:
Putty does not accept the pem file format so we need to convert it using puttygen.exe software to 
putty private key (ppk file ) so putty can accepts it.

So to connect to putty everytime you log out of the AWS instance follow the below steps:
1. Start the ec2 instance.
2. Open putty and re-enter the IPv4 Public IP key and configure the putty by entering the ppk file.


Another way to use ssh key in windows through window terminal:
Preety same way as the linux/Mac OS even for Windows.



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SSH Troubleshooting


1) There's a connection timeout:

This is a security group issue. Any timeout (not just for SSH) is related to security groups or a firewall.
 Ensure your security group looks like this and correctly assigned to your EC2 instance.


2) There's still a connection timeout issue:

If your security group is properly configured as above, and you still have connection timeout issues, 
then that means a corporate firewall or a personal firewall is blocking the connection. Please use EC2 Instance 
Connect.



3) SSH does not work on Windows:

If it says: ssh command not found, that means you have to use Putty.

Follow again the video. If things don't work, please use EC2 Instance Connect.



4) There's a connection refused:

This means the instance is reachable, but no SSH utility is running on the instance.

Try to restart the instance.

If it doesn't work, terminate the instance and create a new one. Make sure you're using Amazon Linux 2.



5)  Permission denied (publickey,gssapi-keyex,gssapi-with-mic):

This means either two things:

You are using the wrong security key or not using a security key. Please look at your EC2 instance configuration 
to make sure you have assigned the correct key to it.

You are using the wrong user. Make sure you have started an Amazon Linux 2 EC2 instance, and make sure you're 
using the user ec2-user. This is something you specify when doing ec2-user@<public-ip> (ex: ec2-user@35.180.242.162)
 in your SSH command or your Putty configuration.



6) Nothing is working - "aaaahhhhhh":

Don't panic. Use EC2 Instance Connect from the next lecture. Make sure you started an Amazon Linux 2 and you will
 be able to follow along with the tutorial :)



7) I was able to connect yesterday, but today I can't:

This is probably because you have stopped your EC2 instance and then started it again today. When you do so,
 the public IP of your EC2 instance will change. Therefore, in your command, or Putty configuration, please make 
 sure to edit and save the new public IP.



How to find meta-data on linux.
Use the command curl http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/


 
